Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.

1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create
D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update 
B) Delete
C) Select

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

3. Full form of SQL is:
B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
C) Create Table A (B int,C float)

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11. What is data-warehouse?
Answer) Data warehouse is a system used for reporting and data analysis and it is considered a core component of business intelligence.
        Data warehouse are central repositories of integrated data from one or more disprate souces. They store current and historical data in one single place that
        are used for creating analytical reports for workers throughout the enterprise.
        It is also knowm as Enterprise data warehouse (EDW).

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Answer) OLTP(Online transcation Processing):-->An OLTP system captures and maintains transaction data in a database. Each transaction involves individual database 
        records made up of multiple fields or columns. Examples include banking and credit card activity or retail checkout scanning.

        In OLTP, the emphasis is on fast processing, because OLTP databases are read, written, and updated frequently. If a transaction fails, built-in system logic 
        ensures data integrity.

        OLAP(Online Analytical Processing):-->OLAP applies complex queries to large amounts of historical data, aggregated from OLTP databases and other sources,
        for data mining, analytics, and business intelligence projects. In OLAP, the emphasis is on response time to these complex queries. Each query involves one
        or more columns of data aggregated from many rows. 

        Examples include year-over-year financial performance or marketing lead generation trends. OLAP databases and data warehouses give analysts and 
        decision-makers the ability to use custom reporting tools to turn data into information. Query failure in OLAP does not interrupt or delay transaction
        processing for customers, but it can delay or impact the accuracy of business intelligence insights.

        ETL: the force that joins OLTP and OLAP
        The data from one or more OLTP databases is ingested into OLAP systems through a process called extract, transform, load (ETL). With an ETL tool, users can
        collect data from several sources and send it to a destination, such as an OLAP data warehouse, where it is queried by analytics and business intelligence 
        tools for insights.

OLTP vs. OLAP: side-by-side comparison
OLTP is operational, while OLAP is informational. A glance at the key features of both kinds of processing illustrates their fundamental differences, and how they
work together.


                                         OLTP	                                     OLAP
Characteristics-- Handles a large number of small transactions	           Handles large volumes of data with complex queries
Query types---	  Simple standardized queries	                           Complex queries
Operations---	  Based on INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE commands	           Based on SELECT commands to aggregate data for reporting
Response time---  Milliseconds	                                           Seconds, minutes, or hours depending on the amount of data to process
Design---	  Industry-specific, such as retail, manufacturing,	   Subject-specific, such as sales, inventory, or marketing
                  or banking.
Source---	  Transactions	                                           Aggregated data from transactions
Purpose---	  Control and run essential business operations in real	   Plan, solve problems, support decisions, discover hidden insights
                  time.
Data updates---	  Short, fast updates initiated by user	                   Data periodically refreshed with scheduled, long-running batch jobs
Space requirements--Generally small if historical data is archived	   Generally large due to aggregating large datasets
Backup and recovery--Regular backups required to ensure business           Lost data can be reloaded from OLTP database as needed in lieu of regular backups
                     continuity and meet legal and governance requirements	
Productivity---	    Increases productivity of end users	                   Increases productivity of business managers, data analysts, and executives
Data view---	   Lists day-to-day business transactions	           Multi-dimensional view of enterprise data
User examples---   Customer-facing personnel, clerks, online shoppers	   Knowledge workers such as data analysts, business analysts, and executives
Database design--- Normalized databases for efficiency	                   Denormalized databases for analysis

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Answer)There are basic features that define the data in the data warehouse that include subject orientation, data integration, time-variant, nonvolatile data,
       and data granularity.

Subject-oriented-->Unlike the operational systems, the data in the data warehouse revolves around subjects of the enterprise. Subject orientation can be really
                   useful for decision making. Gathering the required objects is called subject-oriented.

Integrated-->The data found within the data warehouse is integrated. Since it comes from several operational systems, all inconsistencies must be removed. 
             Consistencies include naming conventions, measurement of variables, encoding structures, physical attributes of data, and so forth.

Time-variant-->While operational systems reflect current values as they support day-to-day operations, data warehouse data represents data over a long time horizon
              (up to 10 years) which means it stores historical data. It is mainly meant for data mining and forecasting.

Nonvolatile-->The data in the data warehouse is read-only, which means it cannot be updated, created, or deleted.

Summarized-->In the data warehouse, data is summarized at different levels. The user may start looking at the total sale units of a product in an entire region. 
             Then the user looks at the states in that region. Finally, they may examine the individual stores in a certain state. Therefore, typically, the 
             analysis starts at a higher level and moves down to lower levels of details.

14. What is Star-Schema?
Answer) Star-Schema is the simplest style of the data mart schema and it is approach most widely used to develop datawarehouse and dimentional data marts.
        The star-schema consist of one or more fact tables referencing any number of dimensional tables.

The star schema separates business process data into facts, which hold the measurable, quantitative data about a business, and dimensions which are descriptive
attributes related to fact data. Examples of fact data include sales price, sale quantity, and time, distance, speed and weight measurements. Related dimension
attribute examples include product models, product colors, product sizes, geographic locations, and salesperson names.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Answer) SETL stands for Set Theory as  a language or Set Language. It is a high-level programming language that is based on mathematical theory of sets.
        It is interpreted language with a syntax that is resembles C and in many cases similar to Perl. In SETL every statement is terminated by semicolon.
        In SETL variables names are case-insensitive and are automatically determined by their last assighment.